Dear Editor:

We would like to resubmit our revised manuscript “Three-dimensional
Edwards-Anderson spin glass model in an external field”, which was previously
submitted to Physical Review E under the number ER11202.

In this work, we present our study on the ratio of susceptibilities for non-zero
momentum as a measure of a spin glass transition in the
three-dimensional Edwards-Anderson spin glass model in an external field. This
quantity has demonstrated to work well in the four-dimensional Edwards-Anderson spin
glass model and in some one-dimensional models with long-range coupling. Due to 
our efficient GPU implementation, we were able to leverage the computing
power of supercomputing clusters with GPU accelerators, and study this quantity 
for a large number of disorder  realizations.  Together, these two breakthroughs,
GPU acceleration and the ratio of susceptibilities measure, hold the promise
for definitive results  around the putative critical point. Therefore, the recent success of 
using the ratio of susceptibilities for non-zero momentum naturally leads to a high
expectation that this quantity can resolve or provide new insights towards the
understanding of this long-standing problem in statistical physics.  For this
reason, we believe the result we presented from our extensive simulations using 
advanced algorithms and computing architectures is an important result in this new
direction of analysis of the ratio of susceptibilities at non-zero momentum. 

We would like to thank the referees for careful reviews of our manuscript. The
first referee recommended the publication of our work. As the first referee points
out, we honestly present our results, which reveal difficulties with current
methods and computing capabilities in dealing with this problem. The other two
referees suggested against the publication of our work, due to the lack of a
definitive physical conclusion. While we do not feel it would be responsible for us
to provide a conclusion based on the data we obtained, we do provide many
important results regarding the origin of the difficulties of using the ratio of
susceptibilities as a measure of spin glass phase transition. These difficulties
do go well  beyond the conventional wisdom. 

In this revised manuscript we provide more in-depth details on these difficulties.
First, we analyze the distribution of the susceptibilities at higher momentum. The
analysis reveals a highly skewed distribution suggesting that the averages will be
dominated by rare events so that it is extremely difficult to obtain converged results.
Second, due to this highly skewed nature, we use the geometrical average as a better
estimate of the typical value of this distribution to calculate 
the disorder averaged susceptibilities. These results suggest that this still cannot
unambiguously resolve the existence of a phase transition. Third, we provide new
analysis based on the suggestion of one of the referees by studying larger system
sizes with a fewer number of disorder realizations. We found that unlike the
conventional wisdom from simulating the model in the absence of an external field, a
few thousands disorder realizations cannot provide any meaningful signal at all.
This is also consistent with previous points, as the skewed distribution of the
susceptibilities leads to the fact that the result is dominated by rare events,
and thus, a large number of disorder realizations is necessary.
This result further highlights the difficulty of using the ratio of
susceptibilities as an indicator.

Finally, from the above new results which haven't been explored in the past, we
propose that a possible direction for the future study should go beyond simply
calculating the average value of some quantities, such as susceptibilities. The
disordered nature in both the spatial and temporal directions from this problem
should benefit from recent advances in big data analysis. Various clustering and
pattern recognition methods develop should provide new opportunities for the
analysis of data from spin glass simulations. 

We believe the revised manuscript contains new results which have not been
explored. While we cannot conclude whether a phase transition exists in the
present model, the results we obtained do point to the possible directions
of future study which may help to resolve this classic physics proble,. In the 
following, we address the comments and criticisms that were raised by the referees. 

Quote from the second referee"
The authors conclude that 'a rigorous data analysis does not seem to deliver
unbiased information', which suggests that this paper cannot give a conclusion."

Our reply:
As the referee points out, we cannot reach a definite conclusion on whether there
is a phase transition in the spin glass under a small magnetic field. However,
with further analysis of our data, we show that the skewed distribution of
susceptibilities is the reason for the bad behavior of $R_{12}$, which leads to
our new conclusion that this quantity is dominated by rare events, and thus a huge
number of realizations are required to reach meaningful results, which is a
challenge to the computing capability we currently have.  However, our results
do shed light on the validity of previous results where far fewer samples were used.

Quote from the third referee"
If I was going to try to do a calculation like this one, I would use h= 0.25, at
least, and I would expect to need to get to at least L= 16 to get a meaningful
result. The authors may say that these parameters cannot be achieved in practice
at the present time. However, I also think that 1000 samples at L= 16 might be
adequate, so maybe it could be done."


Our reply:
The referee suggests that we study 1000 samples at L=16, so we did simulate
11,200 samples at L=16, and included the results in the discussion. We divided the
samples into 4 groups, each with 2800 samples, and calculated $R_{12}$ for each
group. The results for the four groups are very different from each other, 
especially at low temperature. Thus, We showed that due to the nature of the
susceptibilities, a small number of samples such as 1000 is not adequate to give
meaningful results.


The referee also suggests using h=0.25 instead of h=0.1. While this
may give us a slightly clearer signal on the phase transition, should 
the transition exist at h=0.25, it would likely occur at a significantly lower temperature. 
It thus naturally leads into a way more difficult simulation. 
As the result stands now, we cannot find a clear phase transition in h=0.1, 
and if there were no phase transition, it would also rule out the possibility of 
the transition occurring at h=0.25. On the other hand, if we found evidence for the 
absence of a transition at h=0.25, we cannot determine if the spin glass phase would 
survive a smaller field like h=0.1. Therefore, we think using h=0.1 is more appropriate
for the problem we are studying.

There is no simple rule of thumb which can be used to determine what value of h
is the best for the purpose of answering the question on the existence of the
transition under an external magnetic field. But we believe that the possible
advantage of using h=0.25 does not outweigh the advantage of using h=0.1 in this
particular problem, both in term of the difficult of the simulation, and the
predictive power. 

We modified the text to include this discussion.




Summary of changes to the manuscript:
We added figures and discussions for the distribution of susceptibilities in
section III. 
We added the results for geometric average in section III.
We adjust the conclusion part to discuss the results we obtained with the
distribution and the geometric average.
We added some reference.
We added figure and discussion for a simulation of L=16 with a small number of
realizations in the appendix.
We added discussion of the advantage and disadvantage of using h=0.25. 


We hope that the current version of the paper is found suitable for publication.


Best,





Original referee opinions:


----------------------------------------------------------------------
Report of the First Referee -- ER11202/Feng
----------------------------------------------------------------------

This is another in a long series of papers where people throw very
large computational resources at the spin glass problem and end up
with inconclusive results. This has been going on for decades. I
compliment these authors on being honest about their results and not
trying to present them as more conclusive than they really are.
Unfortunately, some others publishing on this topic are less honest.
For this reason, I think it would be better to publish this paper than
not. We would not want it to appear that you can only publish spin
glass simulations that exaggerate their own significance. But it would
have been better if instead the authors had used those massive
computational efforts for something more productive.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Report of the Second Referee -- ER11202/Feng
----------------------------------------------------------------------

This paper studies a spin-glass transition under the magnetic field,
which is very important to clarify the low-temperature nature of the
spin glasses. The authors performed Monte Carlo simulations using
GPGPU and obtained several results. Some of them are conventionally
investigated quantities such as the spin-glass susceptibility, the
Binder ratio, and the scaled correlation length. In addition, the
authors calculated R_{12} quantity recently proposed. The results are
not consistent regarding the existence of the spin-glass transition:
the conventional quantities suggest no transition but the R_{12}
suggests a transition. The authors conclude that "a rigorous data
analysis does not seem to deliver unbiased information", which
suggests that this paper cannot give a conclusion.

I think that this paper is not suitable for publication.

As the authors wrote in the conclusion, nothing is clarified in this
paper. The numerical method presented in this paper is not good for
the spin-glass problem. This is an only information I received from
this paper, and I believe that it is not meaningful to the readers of
PRE.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Report of the Third Referee -- ER11202/Feng
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Unfortunately, the authors have made a poor choice of input parameters
for their simulation. They use L= 6, 8 and 10, and h= 0.10. As is well
known, with these small values of L one cannot really tell what is
going on even for zero h. According to Krzakala et al. in authors'
ref. 59, h_c= 0.65 at T= 0. Thus h= 0.10 is a very small field. For
such a small field at the small values of L used here, one has no
possibility of having reached a putative finite-h scaling regime.

In my opinion, nothing new is learned from the work presented in this
manuscript. If I was going to try to do a calculation like this one, I
would use h= 0.25, at least, and I would expect to need to get to at
least L= 16 to get a meaningful result. The authors may say that these
parameters cannot be achieved in practice at the present time.
However, I also think that 1000 samples at L= 16 might be adequate, so
maybe it could be done.

In my opinion, this manuscript is not suitable for publication in the
Physical Review.
